Sequel script
/* I foresee this script being turned into a video essay or pitch for a sequel */

Outline
1. Introduction of main themes
2. History of Desire, as represented in Gaiman's story
3. Desire's arc in the sequel
4. Deeper characterization of Desire
5. Stories that could be told, think of these as issues/arcs


-1-
Neil Gaiman's The Sandman was a deeply personal epic, following characters called the Endless, embodiments of aspects of the universe including Dream, Desire, Destiny, Death, and others. Much of the series' appeal comes from the family dynamics between these Endless, as well as the ambitious scope of serialized storytelling and imagination on display. Sandman tackles topics like the power of stories and one's capacity for change. While Gaiman's work brought finality to Dream's incarnation, this sequel follows Desire, as the brother/sister adapts to Dream's absence and the role he/she played in what occurred. Dream and Desire are both characterized with aspects of depression, and as Dream deals with his, I’d like to see Desire to grow.
-2-
Gaiman's original series follows the titular Sandman, an embodiment of Dream also commonly referred to as Morpheus, through his stewardship of his realm. Following decades-long imprisonment at the start of the series, Dream reclaims his realm and experiences newfound empathy after his trials. Piecemeal, Morpheus sets up a successor in the human child named Daniel and decides to die, reincarnating as a new manifestation of Dream in Daniel.
Gaiman weaves a family drama in the background of the Sandman saga. One of Dream's most fraught and antagonistic relationships is with his androgynous sister/brother Desire. In a cat and mouse game spanning the very first issue (when Desire seeds a vortex to ensnare Dream) to the penultimate Kindly Ones arc (when Desire sparks Dream’s doomed romance with another series character), Desire toys with Morpheus. However, that dynamic ends via Morpheus’ weary succumbing/suicide to protect his realm from the Kindly Ones, a lack of closure for Desire and unforeseen consequences.
During Morpheus’ wake, Desire states, “...”
-3-
These unresolved feelings are a great inspiration for a sequel volume that center on Desire. 
Gaiman portrayed Desire with a certain feline, playful-and-impetuous character, and I propose that the trauma of Morpheus’ decision shocks Desire into self-reflection and contemplation of non-existence. Such is the legacy of the Endless family recently. Destruction abdicated his realm during the Enlightenment and Dream passed from one incarnation to the next. What originates as depression and a suicidal impulse, perhaps with strains of Buddhist enlightenment about escaping suffering by killing Desire, I’d like to subvert by ultimately having Desire accept her/himself and carry on.
This sequel keys into Desire’s ephemeral nature, arcing towards growth and evolution. Morpheus’s internal conflict often arose from the character’s relative inability to change weighing that character down, while Desire adapts naturally beyond any will or intentionality to change. If handled adeptly, this should not negate Gaiman’s original story because of the vastly different characters showcased: Morpheus’s death represented a wish to change more than he thought himself capable, a metaphor and metamorphosis. Desire’s struggle is a mirror in that he/she wishes to self-influence her/his changing nature, surfacing agency as a slightly more optimistic theme. This characterization should start small, like a check on the cruelty that Desire sometimes expresses when interacting with others, but it matures with the series.
-4-

